Innovations and Evil Customs
To introduce something which has no basis in Shariah into the Deen, to regard it as part of Deen, and
to act upon it with the hope of reward, is called a bid'ah (innovation). An innovation is a major sin.
The following innovations and customs should be abstained from:
1. To organize and hold grand fairs at graves, to light lamps there, for women to visit them, and
to cover graves with sheets.
2. To construct tombs over the graves.
3. To go to extremes in revering the graves with a view to please the saint of the grave.
4. To make ta'zias, to kiss the graves and rub its dust on one's face.
5. To make tawaaf and sajdah to the graves.
6. To read salaat towards the graves.
7. To make offerings of sweetmeats, rice, etc. to the graves.
8. To keep ta'zias or emblems on the graves, and to keep sweets, etc. on them.
9. To salute graves and regard them as unique and incomparable.
10. To abstain from the following acts in the month of Muharram:
(a) eating betel leaves,
(b) applying henna (mehendi),
(c) the company of the husband,
(d) wearing red clothes,
(e) eating out of the dish named after Hazrat Fatimah (R.A.).
11. To observe the third and fortieth days as compulsory after death ceremonies.
12. To regard the second marriage of a woman as a blemish despite there being a need for it.
13. To perform the different ceremonies of Nikah (marriage), Khatna (circumcision), Bismillah
(beginning of education), etc., inspite of lack of means, especially by putting oneself in debt
and making arrangements for music and dances.
14. To observe the festivals of Holi and Diwali.
15. To greet in any way other than the greeting of As salaamu alai kum, or to just bow by raising
the hand to the head.
16. To appear before one's brother-in-law, sister-in-law, cousins, or any other strangers, etc.
without any modesty or bashfulness.
17. To bring water from the river while singing.
18. To listen to music or play musical instruments, or to make dancing girls dance and to reward
them for it.
19. To be boastful or proud of one's lineage or family, or to consider any connection with any
saint to be sufficient for salvation.
20. To taunt someone on account of his lower lineage, or to regard any permissible occupation to
be despicable or below your dignity.
21. To go to extremes in praising someone.
22. To spend extravagantly in marriages and other senseless ceremonies.
23. To follow Hindu customs.
24. To make the bridegroom wear clothes which are contrary to the Shariah, to adorn him with
garlands, to apply henna (mehendi) on him, to light fireworks and make unnecessary
decorations.
25. To bring the bridegroom among the women and in front of them, or to peep at him. 